---
audio: false
generated: false
image: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: Insufficient C Drive Space
translated: false
---

This post was originally written in Chinese and published on Qzone.

---

Quote:
As computer users know, the C drive is usually the system drive. Even if you don't install software on the C drive, but on the D drive or other drives, software like Office and Visual Studio 2008 still takes up a lot of C drive space. In Windows 7, when the available space of each partition is less than 10% of the partition's total size, it will display in red. This is annoying. So, when you can no longer reduce the C drive's size by deleting temporary files and junk files, you might as well use the techniques in this article to expand the available space of the C drive.

Main body:
This article will show you how to adjust the size of partitions at will in Windows 7, and complete it without data loss.

The total space of all hard drives cannot be changed; manufacturers design it at the factory. So don't think about increasing the hard drive with software. You might as well replenish the C drive with the extra space from other partitions. When I installed my computer, I didn't think deeply at the time, so I only allocated 15GB to the C drive (out of a total of 250GB). After installing Windows 7, there was almost no available space left. But the available space on other partitions of my computer is very large. Don't waste it.

The software to use is: Acronis Disk Director Suite, a foreign disk tool. The reason why I spent an afternoon on this was because I was deceived by software like Partition Magic. Acronis Disk Director Suite is a hundred times stronger than them. First, Partition Magic Edition 8 is not compatible with Windows 7, and the localization is not well done. Second, Paragon Partition Manager, everyone says it's good, but the shared version does not support functions such as merging partitions. Even with the personal version, I think Acronis Disk Director Suite is much better and has much stronger functions.

Acronis Disk Director Suite 10 download address: http://down.vista123.com/AcronisDiskDirector10.rar
-- This is the safest, most effective, and best disk partitioning software I have used so far.

Step 1: During the software installation process, there are three installation options: 1) Typical 2) Custom 3) Complete. Select "custom" to set the installation directory. Install the software on the D drive. See Figure 1. One step of the installation is to enter the serial number. In the downloaded package, find the "keygen.exe" and the corresponding version. Copy and paste the serial number. After the installation is complete, enter the software and select Manual Mode.

Step 2: After entering the main window of the software, there is an "Increase Free Space" option in the Winzard section in the upper right corner. We will use this function to adjust the C drive. See Figure 2.

Step 3: Select the partition you want to increase the capacity of, so select C. Click "next".

Step 4: Find a hard drive partition with a large amount of remaining space to contribute. I chose the E drive. See Figure 3. The next window is to adjust the capacity of the C drive (that is, the area you selected in step 3 to increase space). According to the remaining space of the partition that is contributing space, slide the mouse to select an appropriate size. Acronis Disk Director Suite will pop up a window to lock the hard drive partition, and then return to the main software window.

Step 5: Click the flag icon on the menu bar, which means start execution. After clicking, start the computer according to the prompts. Then Acronis Disk Director Suite will adjust your partitions according to your requirements before entering Windows 7, which is very convenient!

Finally, my C drive has 20GB of available space.

With so much available space, you don't have to worry about installing large software such as Photoshop and Flash.

Moreover, after the C drive is larger, the computer runs very fast. After using it for a month, there are no after-effects.