---
audio: true
generated: false
image: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: Plan for 2025
---

* April 2025 National Self Study Exam. Pass 4 courses:
  * Computer Organization and Architecture (Passed)
  * Linear Algebra (Failed)
  * Computer Networks (Failed)
  * Introduction to Law (Passed)

* October 2025 National Self Study Exam. Pass 4 courses:
  * Ideological and Moral Cultivation and Rule of Law
  * Basic Electronic Technology (III)
  * Linear Algebra
  * College Chinese

* Course Preparation. Prepare 3 course:
  * Computer Networks 
  * Microcomputer and Interface Technology  
  * Mao Zedong Thought and Theory of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics 

* Exam Result: Check the exam results at the end of May and November.

* Blogging: Aim to publish 100 blog posts covering self-study courses, AI research, and other topics of interest.

* Exercise: Play basketball at least twice a week, especially from April to November when the weather is warmer.

* Employment: Accept the job offer and join an outsourcing company to work on a backend project at a large bank. Enjoy the job.

* Work: Attend the daily stand-up, fill out the timesheet at the end of the week, go to the office for 3 days a week, and punch the card on time.

* Diet: Prioritize fruits over snacks. Limit beverages to those with less than 100 calories per 100 ml. Drink plenty of tea.

* Food: Eat diversely and cherish the time when I can eat out. Eat less rice and more vegetables. Try more restaurants. 

* Sleep: Go to bed regularly. Spend at least nighttime hours in bed. On workdays, wake up around 9 AM or 10 AM, or earlier if planning to go to the office. On weekends, wake up naturally.

* Health: Continue to work on reversing myopia and monitor it. The estimated achievement by the end of December 2025 is:
  * Left Eye: Myopia (-1.50), Astigmatism (-0.75)
  * Right Eye: Myopia (-3.25), Astigmatism (-1.00)

* Family: Help my daughter watch more English animations by turning on the TV and using YouTube Kids.

* Weekend family time: Take my daughter to go outside to places like shopping malls or children's play centers, and explore Guangzhou's scenic views on the weekend.

* Filipino English Courses: Order English classes at 20 CNY for a 25-minute class and attend three times a week.

* AI Tool Use: Use ChatGPT, Gemini, Grok, Mistral, DeepSeek, Claude, and Perplexity in turn to utilize the free usage amount.

* Mobile Usage: Spend less time exploring X/Twitter or WeChat. Focus more on books, Reddit, Hacker News, and long-form reading. Also, spend some time on TikTok or YouTube Shorts.

* Living in the Future: Predict and think about the future often. Try more things and learn more about health and medical topics. Plan for the long term.

* Travel: Plan to go to Hong Kong or Macao to visit English shops, universities, and libraries, and explore the Greater Bay Area of South China to learn more about its history and local culture.

* Chore: Bathe every day, wash clothes, hang them up, and dry the clothes using the dryer before wearing them.

* Finances: Pay the house mortgage monthly and the property management fee quarterly.

* Fixed Expenses: monthly mortgage, property management fee, vehicle insurance fees, two mobile phone plans, electricity, water, gas, fuel costs, small commodity shopping, drinking water, and fruit.

* Investing: Regularly invest around 200 dollars in NVIDIA and 100 dollars in Bitcoin each week.

* Vehicle Insurance:
  * The Mandatory Vehicle Insurance and Commercial Vehicle Insurance for my Neta EV will expire on October 10, 2025.
  * The Mandatory Vehicle Insurance and Commercial Vehicle Insurance for my Polo gasoline car will expire on April 8, 2025.

* Tax: Around March 15, 2025, I can submit the tax refund application. As with last year, since my income wasn't high, I expect a refund of around 3000 CNY. (Acutally it is around 600 CNY)

* Blog Traffic: In 2024, my blog attracted 12,700 users and had 44,900 page views. I expect a 30% increase in traffic in 2025.

* Driver's License Annual Score Clearance: The score was updated on March 22nd. Consider whether to use my family member's driver's license to handle the fine.



