---
audio: false
generated: false
image: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: Being Safe
translated: false
---

Keeping secrets is essential for staying safe. I learned this insight from a high-ranking officer in the Chinese government who has worked in security for decades.

Yes. To stay safe, the best approach is to ensure no one knows you. Consider criminals who hide in rural areas—they use fake names or forged identity cards to avoid detection.  

Nature itself is likely safe. Harm or injury typically comes from other people.  

If something happens, it’s probably because someone wanted it to happen.  

But another way to keep safe is to be transaparent as much, espcially in data or knowledge sector. Think of Linux torvalds, he may not be less worried about how his project or knowledge get stolen. Because they are already open sourced. 

He works on open source projects like linux and git for his whole life. He doesn't worry about who stole them as they are already shared in the public.

For something we want to keep it secret is that we are worried people know. The crimianls worry that police or public find them out.

We are worried about our personal data because others may use them for bad purpose, use our information to perform criminal activies or use our data to train models or vision models to be benificial for them. 

We don't want people to find out where we are. The safety of our physical body is the most critical. Often, money can earned back but health is not. For some people, money is actually important too. 

What's benifits will we have when sharing information or data? One reason is for people gain money or fame. They want to share knowledge or life a lot to gain attention, later money. One reason is that for doing business, we have to share sometimes to gain trust of parners, users. Another reason is that we do this unintentionally. The big companies or different applications may get our personal data.

People are selfish for that they are not interested in you unless you have something they are looking for, whether money, or jobs, or resources, or informations.

In nowadays, it is hard to meet people who are humble to reach out to you to learn something. They are more interested to sell you their products or services. 

Living quietly like only close family members know your daily activity. What cons or pros there? It is like an application. Few people use may be that you are safe that no one is intrested to hurt you. For a big platform or applications, one may encounter DDOS attack or malicious attack. It is generally safer when few people know you. Because the nature or indiffernt attacks are few in modern countries. 

As long as you can pay your daily expense, or that you can eat, sleep, pee, poo well, then you are fine.

And to be safe, it is largely depends on where we are, what coummnity we are surroudning. Even in China, where a lot of camera and genarally viewed as countries, there are some places that are not safe. For example, as now there are a lot of jobless people in China, for some middle or small cities, the bars or night stand hot areas may not be safe. In the USA, it will be usually worse. 

One of my scarist moment in my life is las vegas shooting in October 2027. When I landed down the Las airport, I just saw the news that show the shooting that just happened. It is not coincident. As at that time, I was 22 and lived most of my life in China, I was quite astonished to experience that. 

Will living in a rich community make you safer? Probably not. While surrounding households are rich too, that easily attracts targets, especially when the economy is not that good.

Living in a suburb of big cities will let you blend into the crowd. The crowd can protect you from being the target of malicious attacks.

How about kids? They are vulnerable to being targeted. Typically, parents or family members will watch closely over their newborn kids. Digital devices also help to protect kids, and cameras help as well. We should take kids to places where cameras are everywhere. If accidents happen, they can help us. And we should live in places where police actually do their work with little corruption.

