---
audio: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: On Anger
translated: false
generated: false
image: false
---

In modern times, people delete or block others if they are angry with them. In families, people argue or shout to express their anger. At work, team leads use anger to show their frustration and push their teams. 

For the job, if we hire someone and we are angry with them sometimes, is it reasonable? Anger has reasons. People become angry with others because they feel offended, not listened to, or forced to do something they don't like.

If the person or subordinate says sorry and behaves better so as not to have conflicts with others again, then it is fine. 

In the family, if there are conflicts, first there are conflicts of thoughts, then they may escalate to arguments or fighting. 

Why do we make them angry with us? It is possible that we do something they don't like. People have different levels of tolerance. At work, there are many priorities. If you align your priorities with those of your team leads, the team leads are happy. If you don't align your priorities with your team leads' well, the team leads are unhappy. They may not show it on the surface, but they will feel it in their hearts.

It costs more to hire someone; we hire their thoughts too. At work, people are quite direct sometimes. If we don't speak out about our conflicts, it is hard to resolve them. If the conflicts accumulate, there will be a fierce breakup. 

People are so quick to feel blamed. Even young kids can tell when they are being blamed. If parents or others are angry with them, they feel vulnerable and cry easily. 

Companies mention they should have a blame-free environment. But it is not. Being blame-free can become too tolerant. And it is hard to make a successful business without high standards. 

While companies want to have a blame-free environment, in actual operation, blaming is everywhere. Some work is not done well. Some hires are not good. Some tickets are progressing slowly. Some decisions are not made well. 

AI will probably help with this. AI can analyze everything better. 

When I rented a house in Beijing around 2016, the male host had broken up with his wife. Once, his wife came back to Beijing to handle the extension of the network fees.

The male host once shared with me that if we have a conflict or argument, we should resolve or face it as early as possible; otherwise, if it accumulates, the result will be very severe. I don’t know the actual story of how he and his wife broke up, but I remember his kind reminder to me.

This reminder seems very true in my later life. The conflict or disruption should be resolved as early as possible with patient discussion or conversation.