---
audio: false
generated: false
image: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: Improving Sleep
translated: false
---

I still sleep poorly sometimes. My sleep habits are not good. After graduating from high school, my sleep pattern became that of a night owl.

I have always had this problem. During my middle school years, I often slept in some morning classes. The first or second class was still fine, and I was awake. But by the third or fourth classes, I would easily fall asleep. I needed the lunch break to catch up a bit. We had a one-hour sleeping time for that.

Long story short, how can I improve my sleep? One issue is that I have a lot of things to do, so I can't sleep. I am not at peace.

For some topics, I think I am doing well, and I can give posts like productivity tips or English tips. However, for things I have done poorly, I couldn't give others tips.

Being a night owl isn't such a big problem. Whether you are awake at 11 PM or noon, especially when I work in a team with Indian peers, I don't have that issue, particularly when I work from home for 2 days a week.

Indian time is two and a half hours behind China time. I can be a little late for work, and I will work a few extra hours in the evening to finish my tasks.

Probably, in a year of 365 days, I sleep well for 300 days but not well for 65 days.


---

## Bathe More Often To Embrace Sweating In The Summer

Nowadays, many people like to enjoy air conditioning instead of going outside in summer, myself included. However, sweating may actually be a good thing.

Why don't I like sweat? Because it makes clothes hard and uncomfortable to wear. But if I wash my body often, on weekends, I can let myself bathe two or three times a day.

Bathing just costs clothes and laundry. However, the benefit is that you are more willing to go outside and do some housework. That is totally a win. That makes us healthier.

How often should we sweat? There is no rigid schedule for that.

But the thing about bathing is that we often do it in our homes. If done outside, it is probably expensive, like when ordering a 3-hour hourly room in a hotel that costs around 100 CNY in big cities of China.

That's an area to improve. Probably, one day, there will be a 30-minute room option for people to bathe, costing 30 CNY each time. I think that's a user need.

Besides hotels, where can we bathe? There are swimming pools, commercial basketball playgrounds, and sports centers. It's good to go there to bathe.