---
audio: false
generated: false
image: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: Installing Ubuntu
translated: false
---

## Installing

I previously wrote about [How to Build a Computer](./computer-en). Let's try something different. Today, I'm installing Ubuntu 24.04 on a Lenovo Xiaoxing 14IAH8 laptop that came with Windows 10 pre-installed.

```bash
sudo dd if=ubuntu-24.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso of=/dev/rdisk6 bs=1m
```

It is necessary to go to settings and disable Device encryption, as the Ubuntu installer requires it.

If device encryption is enabled and secure boot is disabled in the BIOS, Windows will prompt for the BitLocker passphrase for recovery.

Therefore, it's necessary to first enable secure boot in the BIOS, log into Windows, and then go to settings to disable Device encryption. After that, secure boot can be disabled again to start the Ubuntu installer.

## Getting Stuck

When Ubuntu starts the `gdm.service` (GNOME Display Manager) and gets stuck, it typically indicates an issue with the graphical user interface (GUI) or the display manager itself. Here are some steps you can take to troubleshoot and potentially resolve the issue:

1. **Access a Virtual Terminal:**
   - If your system is stuck at the GDM screen, you can try to access a terminal to diagnose the problem.
   - Press `Ctrl + Alt + F2` (or `F3`, `F4`, etc.) to switch to a virtual terminal.

2. **Log In:**
   - Log in with your username and password.

3. **Check System Logs:**
   - Use the following command to check the system logs for any errors or warnings that might indicate the cause of the issue:
     ```bash
     sudo journalctl -xe
     ```
4. **Reinstall the GDM Service:**
   - Purge and reinstall GDM3. This will remove configuration files and ensure a clean installation:
     ```bash
     sudo apt remove --purge gdm3
     sudo apt install gdm3
     ```

5. **Reboot the System:**
   - Reboot your system to apply the changes:
     ```bash
     sudo reboot
     ```

## LightDM

If GDM3 fails, LightDM can be used as an alternative display manager. However, after installing LightDM, you might encounter an issue where the login screen appears, but any password you enter is rejected as incorrect.

1. **Install and Configure LightDM:**
   - To install LightDM:
     ```bash
     sudo apt-get install lightdm
     ```
   - During the installation, you will be prompted to select a default display manager. Choose LightDM.
