---
layout: post  
title: "Future"
audio: true
---

* The dream of owning a house is over. Not only in China, but globally, only a few cities will be exceptions.

* AI is the future. Neural networks, built on calculus and combined with large-scale computing, could transform most things from X to Y.

* Crypto is the future. Bitcoin is the "Internet of money." No one can kill Bitcoin. It represents humanity's pursuit of freedom.

* Regular investing is key to successful investment. Start with *The Intelligent Investor* by Benjamin Graham, first published in 1949. It has been proven over the past 80 years.

* People will live longer thanks to advancements in technology and science, driven by AI. Perhaps, on average, people will live up to 120 years.

* The USA will continue to prosper due to its system, technology, and talent.

* Setting up a country will become easier. There will be more countries, just like companies. Tens of new countries with populations of several million will emerge. More countries will be created, similar to Singapore.

* Like in He Qinglian's book, China will collapse but not break.

* Robots will also be part of the future. Physical space, much like linguistic space, will evolve, and robots will function similarly to today’s AI chatbots.

* Many industries will see significant improvements due to the combined power of crypto, AI, and robots.

* Electricity will play a bigger role in the future. Everything will be powered by electricity.

* The physics, chemistry, and biology communities will become like the information technology communities today. They will have their own GitHub, Kaggle, Hugging Face, and more.

* Individuals will achieve a lot more. Instead of spending years doing boring tasks, people will accomplish more and achieve greater things.

* Those who want to succeed should think about how to position themselves for the future world. Start from that end and work backward to understand how to reach that point from today.

