---
audio: false
generated: false
image: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: Redis
translated: true
---

Open Redis official website, the first sentence states that Redis is an open-source, in-memory data structure store, commonly used for databases and caching. `Redis` is very common. Install Redis

You can install Redis from the official website. Just like SQLite, how do we use Redis in Python after installation?

```shell
pip install redis
``` Import redis module.\
>>> import redis\
Create a Redis object with given parameters.\
>>> r = redis.Redis(host='localhost', port=6379, db=0)\
Set key 'foo' to value 'bar'.\
>>> r.set('foo', 'bar')\
Return True if successful.\
True\
Get value of key 'foo'.\
>>> r.get('foo')\
Return value as bytes.\
b'bar' Python documentation provided some examples. Here comes something like `pip`. `pip` is a package manager. For what a package manager is, please refer to the "Getting Familiar with the Programming Environment" chapter. `pip` for `python` is similar to `Homebrew` for `macOS` system.

`pip` usually comes with the installation of `python`. If the computer has multiple versions of `Python` and `Pip`, the following two lines can be added to `~/.bash_profile`:

```shell
alias python=/usr/local/Cellar/python@3.9/3.9.1_6/bin/python3
alias pip=/usr/local/Cellar/python@3.9/3.9.1_6/bin/pip3
``` The meaning is to specify a certain version of `python` and `pip`. One way is to install it using `Homebrew`. Another way is to install it from the source code.

```bash
make
make test
make install
```

Translation:

Specify a certain version of Python and pip. One way is to install it using Homebrew. Another way is to install it from the source code.

Build process:

make
make test
make install Redis is starting
Redis version 6.2.1 64 bit
Warning: no config file specified, using the default config
Increased maximum number of open files to 10032 (it was originally set to 4864)
monotonic clock: POSIX clock_gettime
...
Server initialized 87684 M 10 Mar 2021 14:46:06.058 * Ready to accept connections

Version: 6.2.1
Open another terminal window for testing:

$ redis-cli
127.0.0.1:6379> set a 2 running the following code:

```python
import redis

r = redis.Redis(host='localhost', port=6379, db=0)
result = r.get('a')
print(result)
```

The output of the code will be:

```
2
```

The Chinese text "127.0.0.1:6379> get a" translates to English as "running the following Redis command: get value for key 'a'". The number "2" is the value associated with key 'a' in the Redis database. `r.set('foo', 'bar')`
# set value 'bar' for key 'foo' in Redis

`print(r.get('foo'))`
# print the value associated with key 'foo' in Redis

# Output:
```shell
$ python fib_redis.py
b'bar'
``` I. Redis Cache Example for Fibonacci Sequence
To implement Fibonacci sequence using Redis. import redis

redis_instance = redis.Redis(host='localhost', port=6379, db=0)

def function(n):
    stored_number = redis_instance.get(n)
    if stored_number is not None:
        return int(stored_number)
``` if n < 2:
# if statement condition is not met
res_n = n

else:
# if statement condition is met
res_n = f(n-1) + f(n-2)

r.set(n, res_n)
# set value of 'r' at index 'n' to 'res_n'

return res_n

print(f(10))

# Function definition and call
# This function calculates the Fibonacci sequence recursively
def f(n):
if n < 2:
return n

else:
return f(n-1) + f(n-2) This way it's done.