---
audio: false
generated: false
image: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: How to Change the World Nowadays
translated: false
---

An footnote of the article, "Experimental Verification of Yin Wang's Natural Vision Restoration Method".

---

Thanks to the Internet. People with different opinions can accumulate together to fight with authority. The words with detailed and careful analysis can beat the words famous people or authorities say. 

Zhiwei is born to be different, honest, and benevolent. And many people don't understand him and sometimes put him down. Zhiwei also know little about how the world works when he came to school, and then society.

We should carefully listen to what Yin Wang says, what Zhiwei says. They did the experiments. Their words don't need to put their title to make it more reasonable or prestigious. 

Thanks to people who trust me and start to experiment themselves. Please share with me your result and share it with all your friends. We don't do this for money. Wo do this for being unable to stand falseness and cheating. 

Yin Wang and Zhiwei may be wrong sometimes. When they do more experiments, they maybe overthrow what they said before. They will apologize for the wrongness. And this is very different from those bad people's apologies. Because they are honest and don't cheat people for benefiting them. 

In a noisy world, it is hard to make people listen to you. It is hard to change the world. It is hard to make the world better. Zhiwei ran his startup for 3 years and finally reached a point to ask for some reward money from his friends and users. And he cried when he knew some of them still remember what he did for the world. At that time, his family criticized him, some of his friends left away, and many users blocked him. He often thinks that he is a failure.

And another 3 years passed by, and Zhiwei became stronger than ever before. He shared a lot about his experience working in global companies and helped a lot of friends around to pay attention to learning English. And he still did a lot of experiments with the guidance of the teacher Yin Wang and shared the result to help people who have the same doubts. 

This time finally led to an important discovery. If it is correct, the world won't be any people who need to wear glasses. My daughter can see English animations all time because his father knows how to prevent and cure myopia. My wife doesn't trust me about this. And it is fine. This is how the world works. It is hard to make people listen to you, not mention to do some action after your words. 

And the hard thing about this is that it at least needs 3 months to gain a little trust, and it needs 1 year to fully trust this principle.

For the Chinese readers, you could go to the teacher Yin Wang's Weibo account(不再关心人类de垠) to search the keywords myopia to read further. For English readers, you could check out the website [http://www.yinwang.org](http://www.yinwang.org). And then translate it to English to find. 

Why do I do this? Some people might say, I am old, I can wear glasses for the rest of my life. Fine, it is fine. But for our young generation, for my daughter, I need to do this. And I think we already forgot how our life will be without the glasses. They are making trouble when we play basketball. We will be more handsome or pretty when we remove the glasses. Nowadays, after using iPhone 14 Pro Max for some time, and then let use back the old iPhone, people will tell you don't bother. For our eyes and our bodies, it is surely a very important thing. Please check out the market for eyeglasses and the popularity who are affected by myopia. Google says myopia affects 1.45 billion or 27% of the world's population in 2010.

I don't know how to express my feeling here. It is a lot like Ilya Sutskever feels when they work on Deep Learning around 2010. He says that they feel special because they have different opinions of the world, of computing. And Ilya Sutskever is a student of Geoffrey Hinton. And now I am a student of the teacher Yin Wang though he doesn't know me, and as now it is 2023, I wrote this article to propagate this unpopular idea.

Why do I do this? I am touched by the few people who have different opinions to make the world better and insist on it. When I got a lot of rejections or misunderstandings of having different opinions, and after a lot of fights with my family, at one point, I somehow want to give up my life. It is those people who give me encouragement and comfort. It is my kind friends and my mother who saved me. We don't do anything wrong, and we just think differently. We just experiment and have some abnormal findings.

We won't force anything more. At my best, I can make 10 friends around myself to take some actions. But it is enough. We know that the teacher Yin Wang has around 130k followers. I am happy to stand with them. I know though we are a minority population, many of us are doing experiments. 

As long as we are correct, we will finally one day make the world listen to us. We don't need them to listen to us. We are nobody. We will finally say goodbye to the world. 

We just tell them don't trust authority easily, please do experiments themselves. And it is hard to have such courage to doubt, and Newton, Galileo Galilei, and Steve Jobs give courage to our generation. And now Yin Wang and Zhiwei Li have done all they can do to make the world better, please do your experiment and share your findings if you are affected by myopia and have some trust in what they say.