---
audio: true
generated: false
image: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: Dealing with a Flat Tire
translated: false
---

My tire went flat today. I had originally planned to drive home early to play basketball. It was 6:30 PM.

I was disappointed to find that my tire was losing air. It was the right front tire.

I found a car repair store nearby. Since the store owner didn't answer my call, I walked there to seek help. A repair employee from the store suggested that he come to check my car first. I took his electric bicycle to get there.

He checked my car's tire. My car tire is 195/55R16, which is a 16-inch tire.

He said he could change the tire with a new one for around 560 CNY.

I declined his offer and paid him 30 CNY for the inspection.

I continued to look for help. I found a rescue service listed in the AMap app and called them. They said it would cost 350 CNY to change the tire, and I agreed.

A technician drove to my location. After 15 minutes, he arrived. He removed the tire and found that the issue was caused by parking too close to the edge of the road, where a tile had damaged my tire.

He used a tool to remove the tire from the wheel rim. Unfortunately, some parts of my wheel rim were deformed. So, when he inflated the new tire, it still lost air. He then used glue to fill the deformed areas. Finally, it worked.

Because of that, I paid an additional 50 CNY. So, the total expense was 400 CNY. 

It was already around 8:30 PM, so the lights were turned off on the basketball court in my apartment complex. My basketball plan was canceled.