---
audio: false
generated: false
lang: en
layout: post
prompt: Do not translate specific items such as project names, company names, or school
  names if you are not sure.
title: Résumé
translated: false
---

## Latex PDFs

You can download the PDF version of my resume, created with LaTeX, [here](/assets/resume/Zhiwei.Li.Resume.pdf) or the [dark mode version](/assets/resume/Zhiwei.Li.Resume.Dark.pdf). You can also find the Chinese version [here](/assets/resume/Zhiwei.Li.Resume.ZH.pdf) or the [dark mode version](/assets/resume/Zhiwei.Li.Resume.ZH.Dark.pdf).

----

## Profile

- Male, born in 1995, Chinese citizen, resides in Guangzhou.
- Achieved top 300 in Guangdong NOIP 2011 and solved around 1000 algorithm problems online.
- Studied for one year at Beijing Forestry University before dropping out. Pursuing an associate degree through self-taught education, with nine courses completed.
- Currently at TEKsystems (outsourced to HSBC Bank). Previous experience includes LeanCloud, Beijing Square Root, Beyondsoft (outsourced to DBS Bank), and Farben Information (outsourced to HSBC Bank).
- Accumulated 11 years of professional experience, including 8 years in corporate roles and 3 years as a freelancer.
- Specializes in 2 years of mobile (Android, iOS) engineering, 8 years of full-stack engineering (7 years backend, 1 year frontend), and 1 year in machine learning/big data.
- Good understanding of HTML, CSS, Browser APIs, JavaScript, Vue.js, React, Angular, and iOS/Android development.
- Familiar with Java, Spring, Spring Boot, MySQL, Redis, APIs, networking, containers, and distributed systems. 
- Familiar with logging, database, and microservice modules on Alibaba Cloud, AWS, and Azure.
- Native in Chinese, proficient in English (IELTS 6).
- Read over 320 books spanning textbooks, personal development, business, technology and history.
- Developed 10 open-source GitHub projects as a main developer, each with over 500 commits available at https://github.com/lzwjava.
- Self-taught researcher with three academic-style papers on reversing myopia and natural vision restoration, inspired by the works of Yin Wang and Todd Becker, backed by three years of experimentation.
- Detailed software portfolio available at https://lzwjava.github.io/pages/portfolio-en.

## Work Experience

### Meitai Technology Service (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Guangzhou Branch, Backend Engineer, 2025.02 - Present

- Backend Engineer outsourced to HSBC Bank under TEKsystems, developing and optimizing backend systems for the Finance Transformation Platform in HSBC’s Enterprise Technology Department. 
- Maintained features for financial data processing including import, validation, and export, while enhancing submission and approval workflows for new financial headers. Leveraged expertise in accounting, ledger, and banking systems.  
- Managed the full development lifecycle, from local development to UAT testing and production releases. Copilot was heavily utilized for extensive tasks such as analyzing root causes, generating Python scripts, and documenting around 50 technical guides; some of these guides became key references for teammates facing similar challenges.
- Developed innovative banking solutions by leveraging AI tools like Copilot, performance profiling with YourKit, and systematic testing while functioning as an autonomous AI agent who analyzed project architecture, collaborated with teams, and continuously improved through comprehensive logging and documentation.
- Worked with technologies such as Java, Spring Boot, IBM Db2, multithreading, Maven, Nexus, Angular, and Python, along with tools including Windows, Control-M, IBM WebSphere Application Server, and Copilot.  


### Freelancer, 2023.08 - 2025.01

- Analyzed and reimplemented some core parts around 30 example projects about machine learning, from PyTorch, TensorFlow tutorials, Coursera online courses or other open-source projects. And got two course completion certificates from Coursera about Machine Learning Specialization and Deep Learning Specialization.
- Prepared for exams related to obtaining an associate degree, with a focus on subjects such as advanced mathematics, computer organization, linear algebra, etc. Listened to a lot of Japanese songs and watched a lot of Japanese TikTok videos to learn the language.
- Participated as a Full Stack Developer in an AI-powered story bot project using Claude's API for personalized stories. The bot supports prompt setting and includes a management page for configuration. Developed with Python, Flask, React, and Nginx, and deployed on AWS. Used Prometheus for monitoring, ELK stack for log management, and ChatGPT-4 for programming assistance.
- Maintained a technical blog with 431 original blog posts. Utilized large language models to translate content into 9 languages, provide text-to-speech audio, support PDF and EPUB formats, integrate with GitHub workflows, and use LaTeX for writing papers or creating a resume. Other technologies employed include Python, Jekyll, Deepseek, and Mistral. The website is https://lzwjava.github.io.
- Conducted experiments with llama.cpp, embeddings, rerankers, Retrieval-Augmented Generation, and the MMLU benchmark. Explored search engine provider integrations such as Jina AI, Tavily AI Search API, and ElevenLabs API.

### Shenzhen Farben Information Technology Co., Backend Engineer, 2022.11 - 2023.07

- Farben is a leading software technology service provider in China. HSBC Bank is one of the largest banking and financial services institutions in the world. PayMe is an HSBC mobile payment service catering to Hong Kong residents.
- Contracting through Farben, assigned to work for HSBC Bank and contributed to the PayMe project. Participated in the backend development for the Auto Top Up feature, which automatically tops up funds from the user's credit or debit card when their balance falls below a certain amount. Monitored post-payment events from Azure EventHub and checked for top-ups whenever a user set up their auto top-up configuration. Used dedicated object-oriented programming to handle cases elegantly and applied aspect-oriented programming to audit logs for changes in the auto top-up table.
- Actively contributed to cloud migration following participation in the company's AWS training. Refactored APIs to utilize request header-based routing, ensured secure access and database configurations, and participated in deploying microservices to the new cloud infrastructure.
- Utilized a strong tech stack including Java, Spring, and Kafka, along with Azure, Azure DevOps, and AWS for cloud services and continuous integration.

### Beyondsoft Guangzhou Co., Ltd., Backend Engineer, 2021.12 - 2022.11

- Beyondsoft Consulting is a leading business IT and consulting company. DBS Bank is the largest bank in Southeast Asia by assets and among the largest banks in Asia. Contracting with Beyondsoft, assigned to work for DBS Bank and contributed to DBS Client Connect and DBS DigiBank CN projects.
- In the DBS Client Connect project, contributed to the development of the equity trading microservice. Responsibilities included creating functionalities for equities display, customer display, pre-trade checks, and placing actual equity trade orders. Integrated Avaloq APIs to enhance the underlying infrastructure and improved the user experience by implementing an edit distance algorithm to refine stock code searches.
- In the DBS DigiBank CN project, actively contributed to the development of several microservices handling mutual funds management, structured investment products, investment portfolios, and transaction lists. Assisted with performance tests by analyzing logs from Pivotal Cloud Foundry to generate reports on the QPS of the microservices. Developed a tool to automate test generation for the testing tool Karate, streamlining the testing process and improving test coverage.
- My first English-speaking job in an international team at a big company, with Singaporean and Indian colleagues, led me to use LinkedIn for global connections, learning, and exposure to international vibes. It revealed mindset differences beyond language among Chinese, Singaporeans, and Indians. This life-changing shift transformed me, starting with English, by changing my info feed to mostly English—gaining new worldviews and perspectives from those cultures.
- Leveraged cloud technologies and modern frameworks, employing automation best practices with tools such as Java, Spring Cloud, Jira, Confluence, Jenkins, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, and Kibana, and utilizing BDD and TDD methodologies.

### Freelancer, 2020.01 - 2021.11

- Authored and published technical blogs to share knowledge online, improved English proficiency through engaging with Netflix and literature, and enhanced problem-solving skills by tackling around 500 algorithm problems and participating in Codeforces competitions. Gained a little hands-on experience with big data and cloud-native technologies by exploring introductory tutorials and running examples for Spark, Hadoop, Kubernetes, and Docker.
- Completed various software projects as a freelancer, LED Sign Website Development, Enterprise WeChat Integration for ShowMeBug, Web Scraper for Trade Data Collection, eBook tool mathjax2mobi.
- LED Sign Website Development (lvchensign.com): Developed a website for an LED sign manufacturing company using Bootstrap, HTML and JavaScript. Implemented features for showcasing products. 
- Enterprise WeChat Integration for ShowMeBug: Contributed to the integration of ShowMeBug with Enterprise WeChat, enabling seamless access to technical interview tools within the Enterprise WeChat ecosystem. Utilized technologies like Ruby, Ruby On Rails, PostgreSQL and the WeChat SDK to create a smooth user experience for interviewers and candidates. 
- Web Scraper for Trade Data Collection: Developed a web scraper using Python and Selenium to collect trade data for a non-woven fabric company. Automated data extraction and page navigation, processed and stored the data in a SQLite database, and generated reports for business analysis.
- mathjax2mobi: a tool designed to convert HTML content with MathJax equations into eBook-friendly formats. By transforming LaTeX-based MathJax equations into SVG images, it ensures compatibility with eBook formats like MOBI. Technologies used include Python, BeautifulSoup, and Selenium.


### Beijing Square Root Inc, Founder & Full Stack Engineer, 2016.07 - 2019.12

- Beijing Square Root Inc. ran two businesses in 3.5 years. From July 2016 to September 2017, it rolled out and operated Fun Live, a knowledge live broadcast platform. From January 2018 to December 2019, it transformed into a software consulting business.
- With Fun Live, users could participate in various knowledge lectures such as programming or design. Users could pay fees to attend live sessions or reward lecturers. The lecturer used the OBS tool to push live streams to the server. Users could participate in the lecture in real-time or see the playback later. The platform integrated seamlessly with WeChat for notifications. Hosted around 80 lectures, gained 30,000 users and millions of page views. 
- As a solo entrepreneur, I coded during the day and gained users at night; everything was direct with minimal bureaucracy. This was my peak performance. I registered the company, met with investors to secure an investment of half a million CNY, handled equity changes, attended other engineering conferences to reach out to potential lecturers, and built 10 WeChat groups with around 500 people each. The highs and lows were intense and exhilarating.
- After getting investment, I hired 9 employees but had to let them go after two months, which contributed to one of my most painful mistakes: not having a long-term plan, wanting to impress others, and naively trying to train my management skills. The good news is that by hiring part-time engineers to do 50 small software projects together, we earned half a million back and gave it back to the investor when shutting down the company.
- From an engineering perspective, I performed most of the software development, resulting in around 2,000 code commits across 3 web client apps and 1 server. They were open sourced on GitHub@lzwjava some years later. The project leveraged PHP, Vue, HTML, CodeIgniter, MySQL, Redis, LeanCloud, Alibaba Cloud, WeChat SDK, SRS (Simple Realtime Server), WeChat MiniProgram, Fabric, Linux, and Nginx. I also did some design work in Sketch.
- During the software consulting business period, completed 50 small software projects for customers, including websites, games, and apps. The revenue was around 3 million RMB and the profit was around 700 thousand RMB. Responsible for project negotiation, team management, and some software development. Notable projects are shown below.
- MianbaoLive: Led a comprehensive backend refactoring effort for MianbaoLive, a one-stop content monetization and social economy platform. Optimized the performance, stability, and user experience of the entire tech stack. Previously used ThinkPHP, Node.js, and Go, and rewrote everything in Laravel for server-side development. The platform included modules for courses, users, content, user attendance, payments, and distribution sales. Partnered with Himalaya, a top audio platform in China, and synchronized content between the platforms.
- Jiangsu TV's Super Brain Program WeChat Mini Program: Responsible for all backend development and half of the frontend development for the Super Brain program’s WeChat Mini Program. Engaged viewers with interactive puzzle games, enabling them to compete and rank to become the "Super Brain." Used the WeChat Mini Program framework and Wepy (Vue.js) to create game components and ranking pages. Integrated RESTful APIs to fetch game data and user information. Performed extensive performance tuning to ensure the system could handle high concurrency, leveraging caching technologies such as Redis.
- Chongding Conference: Spearheaded full-stack engineering for Chongding Conference, a mobile trivia app in China resembling HQ Trivia. Designed and implemented services and APIs to handle live trivia events, user management, and real-time question and answer sessions. Utilized Java and Spring for the backend, with Redis and Kafka for caching and message queuing, Zookeeper for service coordination, and Socket.IO for real-time interactions. Developed the admin panel to help operators control the game. The app supported live streaming, real-time interaction, and robust performance under high traffic conditions. Contributed to technical discussions for using SEI (Supplemental Enhancement Information) to synchronize the timestamp of the live streaming with the trivia game interactions.

### Beijing Dami Entertainment Co., Cofounder & Full Stack Engineer, 2015.11 - 2016.7

- Beijing Dami Entertainment Co. was a company founded by 6 Internet enthusiasts, including me. Launched and operated the platform CodeReview, a professional platform for code review, communication, and sharing. Gained around 3000 users.
- The platform included functionalities such as user management, code submission and review processes, notification systems, payment integration, and event and workshop management. Engineers could submit their code for expert review to improve its quality, and experts received fees for their reviews. The platform also offered workshops and events open to users.
- Responsible for the development of the backend and half of the frontend. Utilized a strong tech stack including PHP, Vue, CodeIgniter, Alibaba Cloud, and Ping++.

### Delicious Bookmarks (Beijing) Information Technology Co., Ltd., Software Engineer, 2014.07 - 2015.11

- Delicious Bookmarks is a leading cloud computing provider in China, known as LeanCloud. It offers a complete set of cloud services including object storage, file storage, web hosting, containers, instant messaging, push notifications, SMS, and game backends. The company serves hundreds of thousands of developer users.
- Participated in the development of LeanCloud Objective-C SDK and Java SDK. Responsible for the development of LeanChat iOS client and Android client, a chat application designed to demonstrate the instant messaging SDK. Additionally, worked on various frontend projects.
- Employed a robust tech stack, leveraging modern tools such as iOS SDK, Android SDK, Cocoapods, Xcode, Android Studio, and the Angular framework.

## Educational Background

### Guangdong University of Foreign Studies，Computer Application, Associate Degree, 2022.10 - Present

- National Higher Education Self-study Examination. Passed 9 courses as of today, Introduction to Operating Systems, Introduction to Data Structures, Advanced Language Programming (I), English (I), Advanced Mathematics, Database and Applications, Computer Application Technology, Introduction to Law and Computer Organization and Architecture.
- Currently preparing for 7 courses such as Computer Networks, Basic Electronic Technology (III), Microcomputer and Interface Technology, Mao Zedong Thought and Theory of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics, Ideological and Moral Cultivation and Rule of Law, College Chinese and Linear Algebra.

### Beijing Forestry University, Digital Media Arts, Bachelor(Dropout), 2013.09 - 2014.06

- Passed 13 courses, like Computer Introduction, Fundamentals of Programming, Programming Fundamentals Lab, College English, Advanced Mathematics, Principles and Techniques of Digital Imaging, Two-Dimensional Graphics Technology.
- Built a campus assistant Android application "Bjfu Assistant" that integrates the functions of checking grades, and alumni forums. It has been downloaded and used by thousands of users on campus. And I built an Android App for learning English by watching movie clips, and won the third prize in a hackathon.
- Ranked in the top 1 in my school's ACM/ICPC monthly training competition among around 100 top students in the university, including higher grade one. 
- Awarded third prize in the “Youth, Health, New Media” digital works creativity contest organized by UNESCO and the Communication University of China for the digital work “Mom Shy To Say”.

### Guangzhou Yuyan Middle School, Science, Middle School Diploma, 2007.07 - 2013.06

- Ranked in the top 300 out of 100k students in the Guangzhou High School Entrance exam. 
- Ranked in the top 300 in the 2011 Guangdong NOIP(National Olympiad in Informatics in Provinces).

## Projects

### Corporate Projects

- HSBC Finance Transformation Platform (2025.02 - Present) Participated in the backend development. Used tech stacks like Java, Spring, Python, IBM WebSphere and Copilot.
- AI-powered Story Bot (2024.5 - 2024.7) Participated in the full stack development. Used tech stacks like Python, Flask, React, AWS, and Claude.
- PayMe from HSBC (2022.11 - 2023.07) Participated in the backend development of the auto top-up feature and cloud migration. Used tech stacks like Java, Spring Cloud, Azure, and AWS.
- DBS Digibank CN (2022.7 - 2022.11) Participated in the backend development of mutual funds. Used tech stacks like Java, Spring Cloud, and Pivotal Cloud Foundry.
- DBS Client Connect (2021.12 - 2022.6) Participated in the backend development of equity trading. Used tech stacks like Java, Spring Cloud, and Pivotal Cloud Foundry.
- ShowMeBug (2021.7 - 2021.9) Responsible for the integration between the platform and Enterprise WeChat, including login and easy interview entrance. Used tech stacks like Ruby on Rails, PostgreSQL, and WeChat SDK.
- Square Root Inc Projects (2018.1 - 2019.12) Participated 50 miscellaneous projects including websites, games, apps, and WeChat mini programs. Responsible for team management, contract negotiation, project management, client communications, and some software development.
- Super Brain TV Program WeChat Mini Program (2018.2 - 2018.3) Responsible for the backend and frontend development. Used tech stacks like Java, Spring, JavaScript, HTML, and AliCloud.
- Chongding Conference (2017.9 - 2018.1) Responsible for some backend development and frontend development of the admin panel for a live-streaming trivia app. Used tech stacks like Java, Spring, WebSocket, and Netty.
- Mianbao Live (2017.9 - 2018.1) Responsible for refactoring the backend of a one-stop content monetization platform. Used tech stacks like PHP, TypeScript, Laravel, and Go.
- Fun Live (2016.6 - 2017.9) Responsible for most code development of a knowledge live broadcast platform. Used tech stacks like PHP, JavaScript, HTML, AliCloud, and RTMP Streaming.
- LeanCloud SDK and LeanChat (2014.07 - 2015.10) Responsible for some Objective-C and Java SDK development, and all development of their demo app LeanChat.

### Open Source & Blog & Codeforces (2013-09 to Present)

- Explore my open-source projects, corporate initiatives, and personal side projects on GitHub: [https://github.com/lzwjava](https://github.com/lzwjava)
- algorithm-solutions: Solutions to algorithm problems, 2466 commits, Java
- lzwjava.github.io: My blog, 500 commits, English & Chinese
- live-server: Backend of a knowledge live broadcast platform, 660 commits, PHP
- live-mobile-web: Mobile frontend of a knowledge live broadcast platform, 528 commits, Vue & JavaScript
- live-web: Desktop frontend of a knowledge live broadcast platform, 140 commits, Vue
- live-wxapp: WeChat Miniprogram of a knowledge live broadcast platform, 63 commits, JavaScript
- code-review-server: Backend of a professional platform for code review, 275 commits, PHP
- code-review-web: Frontend of a professional platform for code review, 302 commits, Vue & JavaScript
- weimg-server: Backend of an image community, 35 commits, PHP
- weimg-ios: iOS application of an image community, 77 commits, Objective-C
- leanchat-ios: iOS chat application, 556 commits, Objective-C
- leanchat-android: Android chat application, 412 commits, Java
- curiosity-courses: A programming course, 215 commits, Chinese
- LZAlbum: An iOS application similar to WeChat moments, 47 commits, Objective-C
- TabsKiller: A Chrome plugin to help close browser tabs, 19 commits, JavaScript
- Reveal-In-GitHub: An Xcode plugin, 57 commits, Objective-C
- LvchenSign: Website for an advertising signage company, 40 commits, JavaScript
- feynman-lectures-mobi: Tool to convert LaTeX to SVG for creating mobi ebooks, 47 commits, Python
- flower-recognition: Android application for flower recognition, 37 commits, Java
- Creak: A simple HTML parser, 49 commits, Swift

## Skills

I have gained a lot of skills since I started programming in 2008. In terms of usage time, the high-level description is as follows. It is different from working experience. I use it to show relative familiarity with my skills.

- 5 or more years of using experience: Chinese, English, Writing, Java, Algorithm, Test-driven Development, Cloud Computing, DevOps, Backend Development
- 3 to 4 years of using experience: Cantonese, iOS Development, Android Development
- 1 to 2 years of using experience: Product Management, Machine Learning, Frontend Development
- less than 1 year of using experience: Japanese

## Tools

Below are detailed tools that help me to accumulate the above skills, plus other interesting tools. I am still using some of them and can learn for a few days to use the rest of them again.

- Natural Language: English, Chinese, Cantonese, Hakka, Japanese
- Operating System: Linux, Windows, MacOS, Android, iOS, OpenWRT
- Programming Language: PHP, Java, Objective-C, Swift, Ruby, HTML, C, C++, JavaScript, Lisp, Clojure, TypeScript, Node.js, Go, Python, Pascal
- Domain-specific language: JSON, CSS, SQL, NoSQL, Kusto Query Language, Kibana Query Language
- Database: MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Amazon RDS, MongoDB, IBM Db2, Navicat
- Database Client: SQuirreL SQL Client, DBeaver, MySQL Workbench, Sequel Pro, Navicat, Eclipse Data Source Explorer
- Frontend: Vue, React, Angular, jQuery, Hexo, Jekyll, Stylus, Sass, Chrome, Safari
- Framework: RTMP streaming, HTTP/IP, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Netty, CodeIgniter, Laravel, Flask, Express, Socket.IO, iOS SDK, Android SDK, Flutter
- Big Data: Redis, Kafka, Spark, Flink, ZooKeeper
- Math: Calculus, Linear Algebra, Discrete mathematics, Latex
- IDE: Emacs, IntelliJ IDEA, Visual Studio Code, Xcode, Android Studio, Eclipse, PyCharm, PhpStorm, Sublime Text, Atom, WebStorm, Delphi, Turbo Pascal
- Terminal: Powershell, Command Prompt, iTerm2, GNOME Terminal, Terminal (macOS)
- Development: NPM, Webpack, Git, HomeBrew, Gradle, Maven, Sketch, Cocopods, WordPress, YourKit Java Profiler
- CI/CD: Travis CI, GitHub Actions, Jenkins, Azure DevOps, Control-M
- Monitoring: SonarQube, Prometheus, Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana, Nginx, Docker, Kubernetes
- Machine Learning: TensorFlow, PyTorch, Theano, Anaconda, Jupyter Notebook, CUDA, Numpy, Pandas
- Cloud: GitHub, GitLab, Digital Ocean, Vultr, AWS, Azure, Google Cloud Platform, Linode, Alibaba Cloud, Qiniu Cloud, Tencent Cloud, LeanCloud, Firebase, Cloudflare, GoDaddy, Agora, Vercel
- Application Runtime: IBM WebSphere Liberty Server, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, PM2
- Project: Jira, Confluence, ServiceNow, Trello, Microsoft To Do, Tower.im, 
- Large Language Model: OpenAI, Claude, MiniMax, Amazon Bedrock, Copilot
- Linux: nmap, grep, awk, ffmpeg, htop, df, lsof, strace, tcpdump, iostat, iptables, rsync, journalctl, systemctl, curl, tmux, traceroute, emacs, diff
- Testing: Postman, Selenium, Karate, JUnit, Mockito, Apache JMeter, Apache ab
- Hardware: Arduino UNO, Raspberry Pi Pico

## Domain Knowledge

Below is a summary of my expertise and knowledge domains. While I have a solid understanding of some topics and a more basic familiarity with others, I would be happy to share more in an interview if you are interested in any specific areas.

- Industry Knowledge: Banking and Payments, Education and E-learning Platforms, Social Media and Content Platforms, User and Account Management, Notification Systems, Data and Analytics, Mobile Applications, Payment Systems, Transaction Management, Social Media Integration, Video Management, Reward Systems, Live View Tracking, Application Management, Mutual Funds and Equity Trading, Browser-Based Programming Environments.
- Computer Science Fundamentals: Advanced Mathematics, Computer Organization, Operating Systems, Computer Network Technology, Database and Applications, Computer Application Technology, Data Structures and Algorithms, Microcomputer and Interface Technology
- Technology and Development: Multilingual Communication, Cross-Platform Development, Full-Stack Programming, Database Management, Machine Learning and Big Data, Mathematical Proficiency, Development Tools, Machine Learning Implementation, Advanced Linux Usage, Testing and Quality Assurance, API Integration, Open Source Contributions, Technical Writing and Blogging, Cloud Computing Services, Distributed Systems, High Performance Optimization, Realtime Application, RTMP Streaming, Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD), Containerization and Orchestration, Network Security, Agile Methodologies, Software Architecture, DevOps Practices, Cloud-Native Applications, API Development, Version Control Systems, Serverless Computing, Performance Monitoring, Data Engineering, Security Best Practices, Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), Technical Mentoring, Project Management.

## Selected Blog Posts

Below is a selection of my blog posts, covering personal growth stories, startup journeys, English learning, programming, geek projects, and more. Please visit lzwjava.github.io and search the titles to check them out.

- Building a Scalable Application on Azure  
- Comprehensive Guide to Spring Framework  
- Build an AI-Powered Story Bot with Flask, React, and ELK
- End-to-End Trace ID Implementation  
- Deploying with Pivotal Cloud Foundry  
- The Wisdom of Learning  
- Zen and the Art of Machine Learning  
- How to Build a Computer  
- Introduction to Web Programming  
- Practical: Scraping Website Content  
- Mastering English: On and Off the Job  
- The Journey of Learning English  
- How to Improve English Proficiency with Large Amounts of Input  
- Turning Feynman's Lectures on Physics Webpages into an eBook  
- Setting Up Live Streaming with OBS, SRS, and FFmpeg
- Lieyunwang: Post-95 Entrepreneur Founded Knowledge Live Streaming Platform QuZhibo  
- Enhancing iOS Development with Automated Testing and Tools
- My Trip to the United States: First Impressions of Silicon Valley
- Advanced Git Operations and Principles
- Exploring WebSocket
- Porting FFmpeg to Android  
- A Deep Dive into Custom Drawing in Android 

## Papers

I'm a self-taught researcher with three academic-style papers on reversing myopia and natural vision restoration, inspired by the works of Yin Wang and Todd Becker, supported by three years of experimentation. In computer science, I am still striving to make similar breakthroughs.

- Li, Zhiwei. (Jun 2023). *Experimental Verification of the Natural Vision Restoration Method.* Zhiwei’s Blog. http://lzwjava.github.io/vision-restoration-en.

- Li, Zhiwei. (Jun 2023). *The Discussion Regarding Astigmatism When the Eyeballs Reverse to the Normal Shape.* Zhiwei’s Blog. https://lzwjava.github.io/astigmatism-en.

- Li, Zhiwei. (Nov 2024). *Natural Vision Restoration: The Principle of ‘Just Barely Clear’.* Zhiwei’s Blog. https://lzwjava.github.io/barely-clear-en.

## Books Read

I have read over 320 books spanning textbooks, personal development, business, technology and history. Below are key books and resources that have shaped my thinking.

- Beginning Algorithm Contests - Rujia Liu
- Steve Jobs - Walter Isaacson
- Treat Time as a Friend - Xiaolai Li
- The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People - Stephen R. Covey
- Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind - Yuval Noah Harari
- Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective - Randal E. Bryant, David R. O'Hallaron
- Yin Wang's Blog (yinwang.org)
- Paul Graham's Essays (paulgraham.com)


## Links

- [GitHub](https://github.com/lzwjava)
- [Blog](https://lzwjava.github.io)
- [Codeforces](https://codeforces.com/profile/lzwjava)
- [UVa Online Judge](https://uhunt.onlinejudge.org/id/113519)
- [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/lzwjava)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lzwjava)

## Certificates 

- Beijing Forestry University Dropout Certificate
- China Higher Education Official Report (Bachelor Education, Dropout Status)
- IELTS Academics, Score 6 
- Machine Learning Specialization Course Completion Certificate, provided by DeepLearning.AI and Standford University
- Deep Learning Specialization Course Completion Certificate, provided by DeepLearning.AI
- Developing on AWS, provided by AWS Training

## Expectation

- Expected Positions: Full Stack Engineer / Backend Engineer
- Expected Locations: Guangzhou