---
audio: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: On Anger
translated: false
generated: false
image: false
---

In modern days, people delete or block people if they are angry at others. In family, people argue or shout to express their anger. In work, team leads use anger to show their frustraction to push their teams. 

For the job, if we hire someone, and we are angry with them for some times. Is it reasonable? The anger has reasons. People became angry with others because they felt offended , listen or being forced to do something they don't like.

If the people or subordniate say sorry and behave better to do not have conflicts again with others, then it is fine. 

In the family, if there are conflicts, firstly there are conflicts of thoughts, then it may escalate to arguments or fighting. 

Why we will make them angry at us? It is possibly that we do something they don't like. And people have different tolerance. In the work, there are a lot of priorities. If you align your priorities to your team leads, then team leads are happy. If you don't align your priorities to your team leads well, then team leads are unhappy. They may not show it in the surface, but they will show it in the heart.

It cost more to hire something, hire thoughts too. In the work, people are quite direct sometimes. If we don't outspoke our conflicts, it is hard to resolve them. If the conflicts accumulate, there will be a fierce break up. 

People are so easy to feel blame feeling. Even the young kids can know when they are blamed to. If parents or others are angry with them, they feel vulnerable and cry easily. 

The companies mention they should have blame-free environment. But is is not. Blame-free will become too tolerant. And it is hard to make a successful business without high standard. 

While the companies want to have blame-free environment, in the actual running, the blaming is everywhere. Some works are not done well. Some hires are not good. Some tickets are going slowly. Some decisions are not made well. 

AI will probably help this. AI can better analyze everything. 

When I rent a house in Beijing around 2016, the male host was break up with his wife. And once his wife is comming back to Beijing to dealing with network fee extended things. 

